add new tracing docs page [DRAFT] (#11466)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/tracing/index.mdx

---
title: Tracing

> sidebar_order: 2

Author: ```suggestion
sidebar_order: 20
```

> description: "Learn about tracing and distributed tracing and how it can be used to not just observe, but also debug application performance issues."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Learn about tracing and distributed tracing and how it can be a powerful tool for not just observing, but also debugging application performance issues."
```

---

## What's Tracing?

Tracing is the process of tracking the flow and timing of requests and operations as they happen throughout your entire application. Each trace has a unique identifier that's shared between backend, frontend, and other services, connecting them. This makes it possible to look at a trace and see an entire chain of events that may have lead to an error or other issue. This helps you understand the impact of errors across your full stack and microservices.

### What's Distributed Tracing?

> Distributed tracing enables you to trace and visualize interactions between multiple instrumented services, allowing you to identify performance bottlenecks that are affecting your application no matter where (frontend, backend, other) they're coming from. You can then use the Sentry [Trace Explorer](/product/explore/traces/) and [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/) to dig deeper to find the root cause. Distributed tracing is particularly helpful for identifying problems you can't just debug using console logs, such as race conditions, [N+1](/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/n-one-queries/), and [caching issues](product/insights/caches/).

Author: ```suggestion
Distributed tracing enables you to trace and visualize interactions between multiple instrumented services, allowing you to identify performance bottlenecks that are affecting your application no matter where (frontend, backend, other) they're coming from. You can then use the Sentry [Trace Explorer](/product/explore/traces/) and [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/) to dig deeper to find the root cause. Distributed tracing is particularly helpful for identifying problems you can't just debug using console logs, such as race conditions, [N+1](/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/n-one-queries/), and [caching issues](/product/insights/caches/).
```
